Yeah, hello, today I show you how to use GIMP, this software, graphic software or Photoshop
can also be used to find out whether two antenna diagrams are identical or have differences
in it.
With this tool you open one of the files.
In this case it will be the technical data from Huawei.
So this technical data sheet consists of five pages, but we just use the last one in this
case, because here you can see the diagrams.
The other pages contain just tables.
So we mark this just to select one page and import that.
Now it is here.
So next I open a second file and you use open as levels.
And you open the Standout Datenblatt, a data sheet for this antenna, and here we have the
same problem.
Which pages are we interested in?
You should prepare this before you open, that you know what you want to look at.
So I open this again in another viewer, there we are, here's the viewer, and I orient myself
where these diagrams are, which I'm interested in.
What's these pages? Page 20 to 27, 8 pages. So I can close this and select 20 to 27.
So, they will be opened as levels, this is German, in English it will be shown as levels,
you import. After this, the levels or pages will be shown here at the right and the problem
is that these pages are in landscape mode. So you open image, adjust to the
levels.
Now we can see this.
So you see the first image and behind this the second and so on.
So you switch off all the other images and drag the one from the data sheet whereby to
to the top, and then you'll see here are several images.
And we want to compare this, and we compare this one.
For the first step, what we do, we get rid of the white background of this image that
works like this. Level. Now colors. And look out that you mark this page here. And then
colors. Color to alpha. Choose white which is default and say okay. Now the color is
gone. You will see this if you switch off this page. Now you see it has no background anymore.
And this is the image we want to compare it with to the right. This one.
so we cut out which frequency this is about the frequency this is here
frequency 700 to 900 and something that is this image so we look in this image
for the same 690 to 960 that is the one we need so we cut this out make sure
that we are talking about this image. So click here and now draw a rectangle.
and with copy we copy this and now we can paste it as a new level paste there we are
Create a new level, but not level, I always use the wrong word, it's layers, not level.
To a new layer, switch off this image, switch on this, and drag this layer over this one.
So, first to the side.
Then we see that the orientation of this is towards the top and here it is towards the
right.
But it should be the same.
So we have to turn this one to the right to make it similar.
Transformation, turn 90%.
Now it has the right, the correct orientation.
But it has a different size.
We have to adjust the size too.
And for this we have to measure the size.
Use the measure tool.
Click here on one end.
Draw down.
And at the bottom you can read the size 163.
We put 163 into the calculator, by, and then you measure this thing, that is 295, it's
down here, by 295.
55 percent or if you take the reverse value, 181 percent. So you go here, say
scale level change this to percent 181 percent scale it now it has the same
size now you can draw it over
And look that the middle point is exactly on the other midpoint, like this.
And now we find the fault as expected, because this, which I switch on and off, is the original
original data, and this is the given data.
And the stunt or dark blood.
So we add another layer, now this goes by automatic, the new layer.
Now we add a text field, find space where we could write some text, choose color, let's
Let's say blue, and write blue, the other one, who am I?
Okay, that's this part.
Now we take care about the, this is the horizontal part, horizontal, you see it here, now we
take care about the vertical part. The vertical diagram is this, or from Huawei it's in red.
So we go back to the worldwide, this one, make a copy of it, that is here, yeah, copy,
Switch this off, take the copy, draw this to the, here towards this, now we have to
turn it back. This one. Level. Transformation. Back. And now we can put it on top. If you
We want to be very precise, to size it up.
There we are.
So, and again, we need a text field.
For this, we could just copy this one, same as here, copy and move it down here and change
the text.
Mark the text icon, and this is red, red diagram, black, stand on top, stand on four, vertical.
Let's change it to vertical and blue, keep that blue, and here we change, add the text
Torisonto, Torisonto, also in German, no, yeah, now, switch this on again, if you want
to do it very nice then we should delete most of the red things so we go to this
level take the rubber and delete the red line because this is confusing here in this diagram.
If you delete some of these dots, it doesn't matter, and if you delete it too much, like
here in this case, you can undo it with CTRL Z, or you can size it up to make it easier.
th
And here the same but the blue line must go, so mark this level and delete the blue line.
If you...
Yeah, that's good.
Okay.
That's all I wanted.
So now, the same with other pages.
Here we have the page for frequency, same frequency, we don't need the same again, we
I can add a white page at the end.
so this page first must be turned back
We have to find this, this is this page, and turn it against clockwise, counter-clockwise,
drag it towards this.
Yeah, and again
drag it here.
Take out the other lever, this one, and that is the Y.
So, we drag it to the center, there we are.
already fits.
So, the third page is also good.
Next page is here, we have to drag this one until it fits.
That is 1800.
So, if we write the frequency here, to name this, that is AD for antenna diagram, 690
9p to 960
It's the same
No, I made a mistake.
The value for the frequency is this one, the smaller line above.
so that is 700, 800, 900
and here the same
and here the same
And now we have 1800 in 10 diagram, 1821, 2636.
Next level, we have to move again.
and the same frequency.
I took the wrong key. It's not AG, it's AD.
AD.
AD.
th
So, and the last one... no, that is the last one.
Good.
So now we need to compare it with the right frequency, because here we compare 600 to
900 megahertz with 3600.
So we have to switch off this, like this, and add the correct level from the diagram
that was here, that was this one, this one, so we go to this level,
Make a rectangle around that, copy, insert, add to new layer, switch this off and move
this layer towards this diagram and we copy this for horizontal and for vertical.
Vertical is already in the, we go back again because first we have to resize it, it was
181% scale, the layer, 181% scale, and now we copy it, and can drag the copy here.
It does not fit really. It's smaller, huh?
So we have to do the resize again.
Yeah, we have to do the measurement again.
to get the right size. So, from one end to the other. Drag and drop this. It's 284.
one hundred and five percent
this one must be resized. Big bigger. A bit bigger. Scale 105%. Scale. And now it fits.
So, we make a copy and drag this copy to the Vertigo Diabra.
And we write something here.
Where have I got to go for 269T and the other one?
And of course, now I write vertical for 900.
Six and a half, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve,
So when all is in place, in this case we can
draw the size of the page, which fits all, mark all,
Drag this to this page.
And now...
image by selection. So now we have a nice page here, and we can
shoes, what do we like, what is this, who am I?
Vertical 690
Boai horizontal
Boai vertical
Should be the same, no?
Let's take a look.
Ah, here's the size problem.
The 5% is somehow wrong.
OK, this one is too small, so we just choose this and size it up, so that's it.
Size it up, scale, 105 percent.
Now it fits.
So, we have the 960.
And this is also for about the 900.
okay that's it now we save this under the name
Now, take this name and that's what I need to be done.
Thank you.
