Hello, I show you how to do the data entry from the data sheet, the given Standort Datenblatt.
You look for this page first for the page called Zusatzplatt 2.
It's also A2.
This is where you start.
And you open a template for the calculation.
And there you find the term Zusatzblatt 2, again here.
So now you enter the data, which is here in red.
you look up above, you start with the date of the sheet, which you cannot find here on
this page. So you have to start on the first page. I go back to the first page. This is
the first page here. And at the bottom you find the date. And you put it here.
And the revision number is 1.22 and the address of the antenna, which you find usually on
page three at the top, yes, the address.
And yeah, that's not right, you don't have to change this, it's the newest revision of
this template. So next data in red is Höhenquote. This was on page A2. Here we are. Höhenquote.
1099, 1099 dot, nothing more here.
Now the frequency. Frequency is here. At least you check that you enter the right values.
it's has to be changed 1800 so these depend on that so but you can overwrite
this so now there are only six not more you sometimes number seven is on the
next page or down next table not in this case in this case you only have six
columns and in the template you have much more. I had 18 columns so you just
delete the unneeded columns.
Delete the columns.
So that was the frequency. Now the company who creates it. Sometimes you have a different
name in different columns. Not in this case. It's all the same. Swisscom. Next line is
the antenna type, so you just put the antenna type into your clipboard and enter it here.
By automatic, this is copied to the other columns, but you have to check because sometimes
Sometimes it is different.
The difference at the end of the name is of no importance.
Best is even to delete it, because this end is the same.
It indicates just the frequency.
You see it here 7, 8, 900, 700 to 900 is here and here it is 18, 21, 26, 36 is this frequency.
So just delete the rest, and this is not an O, it is a zero, and that is not an L, it
is the one, so that would be the correct type. Next, adaptiver Betrieb is no no no no, always,
and subarrays it's always zero or none. Now we have Höhe der Antenne that is
different. So you take this for the first. And this for the second. And this again.
And now the power, Sendeleistung, just add this.
And the values for the direction azimuth is 60.
And this repeats, usually.
So horizontal 0, 9, 6, 0, 9, 6, and the other one is minus 2.
minus 2, minus 2, minus, minus 12, minus 7, minus 12, minus 12, and that is a calculated
line we keep it as it is calculated and that's all on this sheet so you scroll
down to the next one and here you scroll down to number of Omen number one that
is this the number in situation plan is 1 so perhaps 0 1 and now we have to save
the file the table to the name we just found
Omen 01
Adresse und Beschreibung. Beschreibung der Adresse. Mast, Fuß. That's what you put here.
And here Nutzung, this field is here. Nutzung after the double dot. Durch Zugang.
This is the next value we need, that's Höhe über Boden, Höhe über Boden, 1.5, 1.5.
and here we have deleted one entry field that is the next one here over here in
0, also 150.
This was red before, but we deleted it when we deleted the columns, but it doesn't care
whether it's red or not it's just for your orientation while enter the data so
now the next values from the table and the top of this table repeats the
format table so you don't have to put this in again but we continue with
horizontal distance or your central distance it's zero zero keep this
whoo on the sheets vision antenna and oka who notice sheet here you put these
is 8.20, 11, 8.20, 8.20, 11, and 8.20.
So, in fact, this is our entry fields.
Should not be gray and should be red.
That is a mistake in the template.
I have to correct this for the next revision.
But this is the line which is calculated
and it is correctly calculated.
I have the same values.
And now the next.
Azimuth.
Azimuth.
We have to write in this, that is 180.
All fields, copy this across the line.
Elevation.
This is taken from above, so don't change anything there.
It's gray.
Critical horizontal senderichtung.
Critical horizontal senderichtung, 60, that's correct, vertical, star 2, plus 7, minus 7,
Minus 12, 2, and minus 17.
The next two you just check, usually it is correct, yes, and here too, it's the same,
dis-calculated values. So next red fields to be entered are these Richtungsabschwächung,
25.9, 11.3, 5.3, 25, 12.4, 2, 4.
Oops.
Next two are calculated.
Next red one is not given here in this case, but we will see it in the next example.
So keep this and look for the final value and they calculated 13.25 and we calculated
13.15. I have an idea how this comes. There is somewhere a rounding here.
I don't care about the difference.
It's about 1% difference, so if it is 1% difference, then don't care about this.
That's correct.
We did it correctly.
So you save this again, save, and scroll down to the next page.
Next page is Omen number 2.
So for this, we save this under a new name, 02.
And the top is the same.
We start here with 02.
And now the address of this point, enter the address, and the purpose of it, wunnen.
And the other value, value, value, value is nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine,
The value is 9.2.
Go down, this is repeated.
And now we are, we look for horizontal
upstand, horizontal upstand.
45.3 through the whole row.
okay 5.3 next to is calculated no this is not calculated has to be entered point
point five, three three, point five, point five, three three, point five, yes and this
This should be calculated identical, just check.
And the next row, as you would, 244, 244 across the row.
it's the same critical horizontal critical horizontal critical horizontal 60 it's the same
and minus four minus yeah minus two plus four minus one minus two minus one minus one
Here is the difference, but it's not red, so you don't enter it, but here.
24.8, 4.9, 7.8, 26.5, 4.4, 10.2
Next line, 0.1, 0.4, 0, 0, 0.3, 0.
is calculated and here you find Bauweise, Glass, Glass, zero. It's the only two you
have to enter, the rest is identical. And to check whether you are right, you look
Look at these values, this row, and that should be identical to this row.
There is a small difference, but it's about 1%, so don't care, similar here, but perhaps
you could find. The reason if you go up in the values which are different,
perhaps you could mark this as different and go up and find what might be the
Because of the difference, it's somewhere in these data.
It's this.
This value. Let's check.
did not help much but okay yeah and here is also as a result big difference but
it's just one percent so don't care about this otherwise you you look which
column is much different this compare this with this where the difference is
and then you find the values which are wrong which are these two columns and
then you go back and look which what values might have been entered wrongly
by you. Yeah, that's it. Now you'll save this again under the name 02 and now you continue
up to the next one three and save under the new name three and continue as
as before.
Put in three here, zero, three.
Brunnistraße, that is third floor.
It's also wohnen here and the horizontal distance is different.
Höhe über Boden, 10.33, 11.90, that's this, and so on, as shown before.
Thank you for your patience, enjoy and you can help me a lot with this work.
